[theme music playing]
[bell tolling]
What do you suppose
the announcement is?
Well, I heard that Miss Cackle
was kidnapped by an evil wizard.
And I heard Miss Tapioca was caught
putting pond slime in her stew.
And I heard that Miss Hardbroom
was turned into a gargoyle
and her eyes were so scary
that they could turn you into stone!
Why don't we test that theory
in tonight's detention, Maud?
[Maud gulps]
As some of you have heard,
Miss Cackle has some news
she would like to share with us all.
Is everyone here?
Everyone except Mildred Hubble,
Miss Hardbroom.
And does anyone know if she'll be
gracing us with her presence?
-Um... She's practicing her chanting.
-Broomstick.
She's chanting on her broomstick.
Is everyone present, Miss Hardbroom?
It would seem Mildred Hubble
has a more pressing engagement.
Oh, dear!
That girl really does have her head
in the clouds, doesn't she?
[wind whistles]
[cat mews]
Please, Tabby!
Now I know that nasty mouse scared you,
but you need to come down.
[gasps]
Please, Tabby! I'm already late for--
[Miss Cackle] Mildred!
I-I'm sorry, Miss Cackle. It was Tabby.
He got scared by a mouse
and ran up to the roof.
-[cat mews]
-[Mildred] You can sleep in my bag.
As I'm sure you're all aware,
Cackle's Academy
are currently reigning champions
of the annual spelling bee.
-[Mildred] What's a spelling bee?
-It's like a competition
where you mix potions
to see who's the best at spells.
Well, that rules you out.
[Miss Cackle]
As we currently hold the title,
we are guaranteed a place
in this year's finals
to be held here tomorrow,
which means two lucky witches
will have the honor
of competing against
Miss Pentangle's Academy.
-Miss Pentangle?
-That's right.
-[Mildred] Who's Miss Pentangle?
-Only the most glamorous witch there is.
I begged my mother to send me
to her school.
-So why didn't you go?
-Because it's co-ed.
-What does that mean?
-[pupils] Boys!
As the rules dictate, we will continue
to work our way through the alphabet.
Our official judicator, Mr. Rowan Webb,
has been charged
with selecting this year's team.
Last year's victory
by Hazel Goodcharm
and Peggy... ribbit... Gribble
brings us to H,
which means our first lucky contestant
is Ethel Hallow.
[applause]
Here, this should keep you going
till lunch.
Swiftly followed by Mildred Hubble.
Me? Um... I think someone else
should go in my place.
That isn't allowed, I'm afraid.
Witching traditions always prevail.
You see this?
I've dreamt about holding this trophy
since I got my first broom.
We lose this, and I'll never forgive you,
Mildred Hubble, ever.
You could still win it!
Ethel's right.
I'm rubbish at spells.
You just need to practice, that's all.
I know what'll cheer you up.
Last one to the stairwell's an old toad.
Mildred Hubble.
Where do you think you're going?
It's our break, Miss Hardbroom.
There will be no more breaks or fun.
We have a competition to prepare for.
[whistle blows]
Come on, Mildred, you can do it!
-Come on, just one more.
-[whistle blows]
-Come on, come on!
-[groans]
This is no time to rest, Mildred Hubble.
Potions Lab, this instant.
[Mildred] Miss Hardbroom!
Right, let's start with some basics.
Level 1, the sneezing spell.
-Mildred?
-[sighs]
Um, feather of crow?
-And?
-Dragonwort.
And the most important ingredient
of them all?
Eyes of newt?
Eyes of newt.
I've met chimps
with a better grasp of spells. Ethel?
The sap of a honeysuckle,
Miss Hardbroom.
I see we're going to have to start
at the very beginning.
Get out your cauldrons.
Hand me the ladle.
-[neck cracks]
-Not bad.
[equipment clatters]
Tabby.
That's it.
That insufferable creature has to go.
Miss Tapioca.
Take Tabby down to the kitchen.
Oh, you leave him with me,
Miss Hardbroom.
I'll soon lick that scrawny fellow
into shape.
[pupils chatter]
[chatter stops]
Broomstick privileges revoked for a week.
Still as strict as ever, I see, Hecate.
Pippa.
Well met, Hecate.
Well met, sister.
You're looking very...
pink.
Haven't you been keeping up
with the latest trends?
Black is so last century.
Vanity is very unbecoming in a witch.
But along with pink,
not against the Witches' Code.
So, which of you girls
is competing against my school?
Ethel Hallow, Miss Pentangle.
Ah, Hallow. I knew your mother.
I see we have our work cut out.
Mildred Hubble.
Hubble. I believe I don't know who--
Mildred comes from a family of witches
based in the far seas.
-[Miss Pentangle] The far seas!
-[Miss Hardbroom] Mmm.
[Miss Pentangle] I look forward
to seeing you in action, Mildred.
And who will we be competing against?
Two of my very best students.
I'm sure you'll all get on
like a coven on fire!
-I'd like to introduce Sapphire Hailstone.
-I better get back to my cauldron.
And Zac Hawthorn.
I'd like you to meet your fellow Bees:
Mildred Hubble and Ethel Hallow.
-Welcome to Cackle's. I'm Mildred.
-Hey, Mildred. And you must be Ethel.
I... Uh...
-I...
-[whispers] Well, say something!
Frogspawn.
Smooth, Ethel, smooth.
-Everyone to lunch.
-[laughter]
[pupils] Frogspawn?!
Isn't Miss Pentangle the most
beautiful witch you've ever seen?
Erica in Year 2 says
they ride on gold-plated brooms.
And they get donuts every Sunday.
[Miss Drill] Ah, Mildred!
No delicious soup for you.
It's brain food from now on.
Dandelions and nettles,
freshly picked this morning.
We heard about poor Tabby.
Are you all right?
Maybe he can come back
after the spelling bee's over.
[Zac] Mind if we join you?
I hear we've got
tough competition tomorrow.
Ethel's the best at everything!
Then I'll have to try even harder
if I want to win this.
-Where are you going?
-To practice my spells.
Poor Mill, she's so upset.
I know what we can do to cheer her up.
I'm not sure I like the sound of this.
What are you, a witch?
[whispers] Or a mouse?
You look like a witch
who's lost a broom and found a twig.
I'm just worried about Tabby, that's all.
-Tabby?
-He's my cat. Or at least he was.
-[Miss Hardbroom] Mildred Hubble.
-I have to go!
[Maud] What are we doing in here?
If Mildred's worrying about Tabby,
she won't concentrate on her spells,
will she?
[Miss Tapioca mutters]
...and this is the thanks I get.
[Miss Drill] That's the problem
with young witches today.
They don't appreciate good,
hearty home cooking.
I was hoping I might borrow one
of your jellies.
At least someone appreciates my hard work.
Tabby, you're here to catch mice,
not eat my cheese!
Do you know what I dislike
more than children?
-Scaredy-cats!
-[mews]
You either toughen up
or you're on the next broom
to the cats' home, understood?
Excellent! Ooh! Your best bounce yet!
[cat mews]
-[Maud] Now what do we do?
-[Enid] We have to find a spell for him.
Last time Ethel tried to do that,
Mildred nearly got expelled.
Then we better make sure we get it right.
[mews]
[wind whistles]
I thought you might be hungry.
Don't worry, I won't tell anyone.
Dear old Hecate,
she takes things so seriously.
How do you know each other?
We were friends once.
[Mildred] But you're not anymore?
I'd rather not talk about it.
It was a broomstick water-skiing display.
We'd been practicing all term,
and then suddenly on the day
of the competition, she didn't show up!
Let's just say a doubles display
with only one of you doesn't go well.
Still...
it's all in the past now.
[sighs]
You're not the only one that's been
doing their homework, you know.
It would seem that you have saved
this school not once, but twice.
It was nothing, really.
On the contrary, Mildred,
Cackle's is very lucky to have you.
But what if I let everyone down?
Oh, just do your best.
That's all I ask of any of my pupils.
Maybe this little man will cheer you up.
-Tabby!
-[cat mews]
I'll leave you two to get re-acquainted.
[mews]
[bat squeaks]
What is it, Tabby?
You want me to keep studying?
All right, but only if you promise
to go back to the kitchen.
We don't want you getting
in more trouble, do we?
A weather spell. OK then.
[door creaks]
[mews]
[Maud] What's the spell supposed to do?
[softly] Help Tabby catch the mice.
No more hiding, no more rests,
rid this kitchen of its pests!
[sparks zap]
[Maud] Do you think it worked?
It better, or Tabby's for the high jump.
[mews]
[ravens caw]
What happened?
Mildred Hubble's useless potions,
that's what.
I said I'm sorry.
Is Zac not joining us for breakfast?
He could cast a spell on me any time.
He's just a boy. You've hung out
with boys before, haven't you?
Ethie, just wanted to wish you luck
for the spelling bee later.
Thanks.
I know you'll do us proud.
Why do I have to be paired off
with the worst witch?
[Maud] It'll be fine.
You can do it, Mill.
I'd be better if I wasn't
so worried about Tabby.
Don't worry about Tabs, we've sorted it.
Sorted it how?
Goodness! Miss Tapioca,
what on earth happened to you?
It just came at me!
I heard a hiss.
Suddenly, it all went black.
You were attacked?
A viscous monster, it was.
I'm lucky I got out alive.
It looks like Tabby tried
to get rid of the wrong pest.
Oh! Don't mind us. We're just getting in
a bit of last-minute practice.
My girls need their cauldrons.
Oh, I'm sure they do, Hecate!
Seven rounds.
Are you sure you're up to it?
We are more than ready.
Fellow Bees,
the competition is about to start.
I thought of a new spell.
[sighs] Your last one almost
gave Miss Tapioca a heart attack.
Have you got any better ideas?
I do, as it happens.
This is no time for snacks, Maud!
It's not for me, it's for the mouse.
[sighs] If Tabby can't catch a mouse...
we're just going to have to do it for him,
aren't we?
Ethel, you must take the lead
in each round.
-Mildred, you must do absolutely nothing.
-[both] Yes, Miss Hardbroom.
This is what happens when you let a girl
from a non-witching family
-represent the school.
-[Miss Pentangle] My Bees are ready.
As are mine!
Let the buzzing commence.
Welcome to the Annual Interschool
Spelling Bee.
Representing Miss Cackle's Academy,
we have Ethel Hallow and Mildred Hubble.
[organ fanfare plays]
Don't mess this up!
-[gasps] There he is.
-[squeaking]
What did you do that for?
-I was trying to scare him away.
-[sighs] Well, where is he now?
He flew away on his mouse broom.
How should I know?
[Ethel] Don't touch anything.
-I can't just stand here doing nothing.
-Why not? You do it every day.
[timer chimes]
Put down your ladles.
Mildred, would you care to taste
the camouflage potion?
[Mildred sighs]
Mr. Rowan Webb, if you'd be so kind.
[Mr. Rowan Webb] Follow me.
-Round two to Cackle's Academy.
-[applause]
Better luck next time.
[Maud] Quick, he's getting away!
-[Enid] I think we've made him run away.
-[Maud] You mean Tabby has.
[Maud laughs]
[timer chimes]
I'm afraid Ethel just pipped you
to the post.
Remember, the spell is
to lift the judges off the floor.
Miss Pentangle, if you could adjudicate.
-[cauldron bubbles]
-[Zac] Good luck.
[sighs] Not this again.
He's just a boy.
Take this table, raise it high,
brace the thunder, let it fly!
[table shudders]
[Mr. Rowan Webb] Nice movement,
but sadly no lift off the floor.
I'm afraid it's a fail.
Zac.
Take this table, make it soar,
lift these witches off the floor!
Round six to Pentangle's Academy!
[Miss Bat over microphone]
Time for a brief intermission.
[chuckles] High Pent.
[Miss Pentangle]
It's not fun being shunted aside, is it?
I don't mind.
I take it this is because you don't come
from a witching family.
Oh, don't worry.
We have people from all walks of life
at my school.
You do?
You're the odd one out here, Mildred.
Why not come to a school
that's more suited to your gift?
You think I have a gift?
Oh! From the first moment I saw you.
Miss Hardbroom doesn't think so.
That's because she's set in her ways.
We're what you call
a modern witches' school...
and it just so happens
we have a scholarship up for grabs.
[Miss Bat over microphone]
We're ready to start the final round.
We think you're a very special witch,
Mildred.
We'd love to have you in our school.
The score is currently...
Hmm!
...tied at three bats each.
-Then let's start the final round.
-Uh, just a moment, Miss Cackle.
I'd like to draw your attention
to the rules,
namely paragraph four, clause five.
I'm well aware of the rules,
Miss Pentangle.
Well, the rules clearly state whoever
took part in the penultimate round
-cannot participate in the final spell.
-She has a point.
Mildred, could you step forward, please?
Me?
And, Sapphire, could you do the same?
You're doing this to spite me, aren't you?
I just remember what it's like to be
shunted aside like an old broom.
Without further ado...
Sapphire, Mildred, I'd like you
to perform the weather spell.
[Ethel] Oh, no!
And the clock starts now.
[whispers] Thanks, Tabby.
Oh...
Oh!
My beautiful kitchen!
I warned you, didn't I?
First broom to the cats' home.
The slime of a slug.
-It needs more slime.
-I know what I'm doing.
And I'm the Great Wizard.
No conferring over there.
-[timer chimes]
-What is it, Mildred?
-I think I'm done.
-Are you sure?
[sighs] See the clouds as they swarm,
bring us an almighty storm!
[thunder rumbles]
[thunder crashes]
[wails]
Mildred! Mildred! Stop!
As official adjudicator,
I am delighted to announce...
Miss Cackle's Academy are the winners!
-[applause, cheering]
-I'm soaked!
Well done, Mildred.
Who'd have thought you had it in you?
[pupils] Mildred! Mildred! Mildred!
Mildred! Mildred!
Mildred! Mildred! Mildred!
-Mildred! Mildred...
-[Drusilla] Eth... el.
It was a lucky guess.
I did all the hard work.
I bet Miss Pentangle's hopping mad.
I did!
Actually, she offered me a scholarship.
You're not going to accept... are you?
-Well--
-What on earth was that racket?
Where is Miss Hardbroom?
Oh, she had to go and see someone,
Miss Bat.
Does anyone know when she'll be back?
-I'll go and check on her if you like.
-Oh. Very good.
The rest of you can write me an essay
on the history of toads.
[all groan]
Mildred said Miss Cackle wanted to see me.
That's funny, she said the same to me.
[chuckles quietly] I've got a feeling
someone's been playing a trick on us.
It would appear so.
I should probably tell you that
I've offered Mildred a scholarship.
Is that the time?
I've got a long flight ahead of me.
You were my best friend, Hecate.
And then suddenly,
you stopped talking to me. Why?
You were the popular one.
You didn't want me getting in your way.
I didn't care about those silly witches.
You were the only one
I wanted to be friends with.
But I thought--
What, because you were the tall,
gangly one,
I'd rather spend time with them?
All this time we've spent
hating each other.
I've missed you, Hiccup.
I've missed you, too...
Pipsqueak.
[bell dinging in distance]
I, uh... Excuse me.
I hear Miss Pentangle's
offered you a scholarship.
And have you considered her offer?
-Yes.
-Well, don't keep us in suspense.
I want to stay here.
I like being the odd one out.
-Thank you for the offer, though.
-You're welcome.
So, what did you decide?
You can't get rid of me that easily.
-[Maud] Hooray! Whoo-hoo!
-[Enid] Hooray! Yes!
A toast.
To the best speller at Cackle's Academy.
[both] To Mildred!
-What are you doing?
-Oh, I'm saving it for Tabby.
-The thing is--
-We were trying to help.
Has something happened?
[Miss Hardbroom] It would seem your cat
is as bad at catching mice
as you are at spells.
As you were.
[cat mews]
We better get this back
to the trophy cabinet
before Ethel finds out it's gone.
-You know what this means, don't you?
-You're no longer the worst witch.
[theme music playing]